xmhf/README.md, before:

WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING
===============================================================

You can ruin your motherboard if your BIOS is
buggy. MAKE SURE YOUR BIOS IS UP TO DATE, and use the newest available
SINIT module from Intel (if using an Intel CPU):
<http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-trusted-execution-technology/>
If you want to be sure your hardware is working, we suggest starting
with Intel's tboot project: <http://tboot.sourceforge.net/>

Introduction
============

XMHF is a modular hypervisor platform for recent multicore x86
hardware with support for dynamic root of trust and nested
(2-dimensional) paging.  It is NOT a full virtual machine monitor.

XMHF takes a developer-centric approach to hypervisor design and
implementation, and strives to be a comprehensible and flexible
platform for performing hypervisor research and development. XMHF
encapsulates common hypervisor core functionality in a framework that
allows others to build custom hypervisor-based solutions (called
"hypapps"). It currently supports only a single "rich" guest OS.

Quick start to using XMHF
=========================

* [XMHF Hardware Requirements](doc/hardware-requirements.md)
* [Building XMHF](doc/building-xmhf.md)
* [Installing XMHF](doc/installing-xmhf.md)
* [Configuring Grub](doc/configuring-grub.md) How to boot XMHF from
  Grub, along with some tricks for remote\unattended boot.
* [Custom Linux Kernels](doc/custom-linux-kernels.md)
* [Debugging XMHF](doc/debugging-xmhf.md)

Design Concepts
===============

* [Dynamic Root of Trust for XMHF Launch Integrity](doc/drtm-design.md)
* [Memory Layout and Integrity Checking](doc/memory-layout.md)

Commit message:

docs: propagate top-level intro blurb into xmhf/README.md

xmhf/README.md, after:

WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING
===============================================================

You can ruin your motherboard if your BIOS is
buggy. MAKE SURE YOUR BIOS IS UP TO DATE, and use the newest available
SINIT module from Intel (if using an Intel CPU):
<http://software.intel.com/en-us/articles/intel-trusted-execution-technology/>
If you want to be sure your hardware is working, we suggest starting
with Intel's tboot project: <http://tboot.sourceforge.net/>

Introduction
============

XMHF is a modular and extensible hypervisor platform for recent 
multicore x86 hardware with support for dynamic root of trust 
and nested (2-dimensional) paging.  
XMHF strives to be a
comprehensible and flexible platform for performing 
hypervisor research and development that allows others to build
custom (security-sensitive) hypervisor-based 
solutions (called "hypapps").

XMHF is designed to achieve three goals – modular extensibility,
automated verification, and high performance. XMHF includes a
core that provides functionality common to many hypervisor-based security
architectures and supports extensions that augment the core with
additional security or functional properties while preserving the 
fundamental hypervisor security property of memory integrity 
(i.e., ensuring that the hypervisor’s memory is not modified by 
software running at a lower privilege level).

XMHF advocates a "rich" single-guest execution model where the 
hypervisor framework supports only a single-guest and allows the 
guest direct access to all performance-critical system devices and 
device interrupts.

Quick start to using XMHF
=========================

* [XMHF Hardware Requirements](doc/hardware-requirements.md)
* [Building XMHF](doc/building-xmhf.md)
* [Installing XMHF](doc/installing-xmhf.md)
* [Configuring Grub](doc/configuring-grub.md) How to boot XMHF from
  Grub, along with some tricks for remote\unattended boot.
* [Custom Linux Kernels](doc/custom-linux-kernels.md)
* [Debugging XMHF](doc/debugging-xmhf.md)

Design Concepts
===============

* [Dynamic Root of Trust for XMHF Launch Integrity](doc/drtm-design.md)
* [Memory Layout and Integrity Checking](doc/memory-layout.md)
